# Ordenação Externa de Arquivos

Você deve escrever um script PHP que seja capaz de ordenar grandes conjuntos de dados contidos em arquivos externos. O desafio consiste em criar um algoritmo de ordenação externa eficiente que possa lidar com arquivos de entrada de tamanho arbitrário, garantindo que o processo de ordenação seja eficiente em termos de uso de memória e tempo de execução.

## Requisitos:

- O script deve ser capaz de lidar com arquivos de entrada de tamanho arbitrário, potencialmente maiores do que a memória disponível no servidor.
- O script deve conter um algoritmo de ordenação próprio, não utilizando assim funções de ordenação padrões.
- O algoritmo de ordenação deve ser eficiente em termos de tempo de execução e uso de recursos.
- O script deve ser capaz de ordenar os dados em ordem ascendente ou descendente, conforme especificado.
- O script deve ser bem documentado e fácil de entender para outros desenvolvedores.
- O script deve ser feito em PHP puro, sem uso de frameworks.

## Dicas:

- Crie um arquivo de entrada contendo um grande conjunto de números não ordenados.
- Execute o script PHP fornecido para ordenar o arquivo de entrada.
- Verifique se o arquivo de saída está corretamente ordenado.


## About the project

To run the project, you need to have PHP installed on your machine. You can download it [here](https://www.php.net/downloads). You can also use a local server like [XAMPP](https://www.apachefriends.org/index.html) or [WAMP](http://www.wampserver.com/en/). This project was developed for PHO 8.3.6, but it should work on older versions. Our examples will use Windows Command Prompt, but you can use any terminal you like.

# How to run

1. First, enter the project folder using the terminal of your choice. You can use the following command:

```bash
cd path/to/your/project
```

2. Now, you can run generateNumbers.php to generate a file with random numbers. You may also change the number of elements generated by changing the value of the variable $totalNumbers in the file. To run the script, use the following command:

```bash
php generateNumbers.php
```

Note that the file will be generated in the same folder as the script, and it will be named "input.txt" if you don't change the name in the script.

3. Now, you can run the sorting script. Pay attention to the bottom of the file, as it will have the variables you need to change to sort the file in ascending or descending order, or to change the files and folders used.

```bash
php ExternalSort.php
```

## How it works

The script will read the input file and divide it into smaller files, based on the memory constraints you set. It will then sort these smaller files and merge them back into a single file, which will be the sorted version of the input file. The target algorithms here are a very basic quicksort implementations, followed by a kinda-inefficient mergesort, which are used to sort the smaller files and merge them back together, respectively. Do note that we are not going to follow the memory constraints on all of the steps, as we are going to do some cheaty stuff to make the code simpler and easier to understand. Bigger chunk sizes will end up resulting in less memory being used, too, as we are going to keep all files open on memory (so this is a pseudo-constrained algorithm, rather than a fully emulated one).